---
title: 18.01.31 our founder
description: ''
aliases:
  - 18-01-31-founder/
published: true
date: '2018-01-31T15:10:41+00:00'
publishDate: '2018-01-31T15:10:41+00:00'
lastmod: '2018-02-02T12:04:50+00:00'
tags: []
post_author: []
section: quickreads
category: uncategorized
color_palette_classname: light-green
background_image: >-
  https://smarthernews.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/SmartHER-News_03_Jenna-Lee-Babin_v2-360x360.jpg
card_1:
  card_text: |-
    OUR FOUNDER
    ===========

    *   Wife of a veteran
    *   Mother of 2
    *   Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism
    *   Writer, Producer, Former Fox News Anchor

    [Read More From Jenna:](https://smarthernews.com/about/)
  card_citation: 'Read More From Jenna:'
card_10:
  card_text: '[view sources](https://smarthernews.com/18-01-31-founder/)'
  card_citation: ''
---
Jenna Lee is an American journalist, writer, producer and founder of Leep Media LLC. Her portfolio of work includes reporting on the biggest domestic and international stories of the last decade.

She most recently co-anchored a daily two-hour news program for The Fox News Channel, covering breaking news and conducting live interviews with a wide range of guests including presidential candidates, lawmakers, cabinet members, business leaders, military veterans, star athletes, and unsung heroes. She is most inspired by her portfolio of work outside of the studio thatA combined American history and adventure. She co-anchored the first ever broadcast for the Fox Business Network, where she covered the historic financial crisis.

A graduate with honors of Columbia Universitya\\u0019s Graduate School of Journalism, Jenna worked as a writer/producer for NY1 News a\\u0013 a 24-hour local news channel based in New York City a\\u0013 as well as created multimedia content for Forbes.com Video Network as an anchor/producer. She began her career as a freelance journalist reporting for district newspapers in her hometown of San Francisco.

Jenna is married to Lieutenant Commander Leif Babin, a decorated U.S. Navy SEAL who is co-author of the NYT best selling bookA a\\u001cExtreme Ownershipa\\u001dA and co-founder ofA Echelon Front, a leadership firm that builds high performance teams. They are blessed with two wildly a\\u001cspiriteda\\u001d children.

[https://jennaleeusa.com/](\"https://jennaleeusa.com/\")