---
title: 18.12.2 week ahead
description: ''
aliases:
  - week-ahead-2/
published: true
date: '2018-12-02T23:52:51+00:00'
publishDate: '2018-12-02T23:52:51+00:00'
lastmod: '2018-12-03T02:03:10+00:00'
tags: []
post_author: []
section: quickreads
card_series: now you know
color_palette_classname: light-green
background_image: https://smarthernews.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/image1-1.jpeg
card_1:
  card_text: |-
    SmartHER News Week Ahead

    Dec 2 - 9
  card_citation: Dec 2 - 9
card_10:
  card_text: |-
    Check out our source page for the full rundown!

    [view sources](https://smarthernews.com/week-ahead-2/)
  card_citation: ''
---
#SHNWeekAheadA TH\\u001f\\u0017\\u0013A Notable news events to kick off yourA weekA feeling #SmartHER. Watch our feed or SmartHERNews.com for updates on these stories allA weekA long.A TH\\u001f\\u0015

SundayA a\\u0018\\u0015:A Secretary of State Mike Pompeo meets with Mexicoa\\u0019s new foreign minister to discuss the U.S.-Mexico border, just one day after its new president took office.A Christians mark the season leading up to Christmas lighting the first of four Advent candles one for each Sunday before December 25th. Jewish people celebrate Hanukkah, the 8-day Festival of Lights which begins at sunset, by the lighting of a candle on a menorah.

.  
MondayA a\\u0018\\u0015:A President George H.W. Bush, who died Friday at age 94, arrives on Capitol Hill to lie in state with public viewings from Monday at 7:45pm ET to 8:45am ET Wednesday. A A International DayA ofA Disabled Persons.  
.  
TuesdayA a\\u0018\\u0015:A German automakers are expected at the White House Tuesday to talk trade. National Cookie Day.

WednesdayA a\\u0018\\u0015:A Memorial service for President Bush at the National Cathedral in Washington, D.C. at 11am ET.A Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell testifies on a\\u001cThe Economic Outlooka\\u001d before Congress.A Google CEO Sundar Pichai to testify before the House Judiciary Committee on data collection and perceived bias after declining to appear earlier this year at a similar hearing. U.S. Capitol Christmas Tree lighting ceremony, with House Speaker Paul Ryan. Grammy nominations are announced, ceremony is Feb. 10th.

ThursdayA a\\u0018\\u0015: A Second memorial service for President Bush at 11AM at St. Martin’s Episcopal Church in Houston after which he will be laid to rest at the George H.W. Bush Presidential library in College Station, Texas.A President Donald Trump is expected to meet with top executives from Google, Microsoft, Oracle and Qualcomm during a White House roundtable.A Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) meets to weigh cutting oil production in an effort to limit a supply glut. The Justice Department will argue to a Federal Appeals Court that a judgea\\u0019s decision to allow AT&Ta\\u0019s purchase of Time Warner should be overturned. Time Magazine’s “Person of the Year” announced.

FridayA a\\u0018\\u0015: Potential government shutdown as funding runs out today for several government agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security. President Trump says $5B for a border wall must be included, but has also agreed to a possible 2-week delay due to President Bush’s death.A November Jobs Report released, economists expect the economy added 200K jobs. National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day.

Saturday :A Atlanta United vs. Portland Timbers in the 2018 MLS Cup at Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta A Heisman Trophy, highest individual honor in college football, winner announced at 8pm ET.