---
title: 18.12.07 pearl harbor
description: ''
aliases:
  - 18-12-07-pearl-harbor/
published: true
date: '2018-12-07T12:58:58+00:00'
publishDate: '2018-12-07T12:58:58+00:00'
lastmod: '2020-12-07T21:13:21+00:00'
tags: []
post_author: []
section: quickreads
card_series: on this day
color_palette_classname: dark-blue
background_image: >-
  https://smarthernews.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/patrick-tomasso-472279-unsplash-scaled.jpg
card_1:
  card_text: >-
    AMERICA ATTACKED

    ----------------


    A bright, sunny, Sunday morning in 1941 the Hawaiian air became black with
    smoke.


    **7:55 a.m.**  

    **Japanese attack Pearl Harbor**
  card_citation: ''
card_2:
  card_text: >-
    Why Pearl Harbor?

    -----------------


    **Japanese wanted to cripple U.S. Navy** (but didn’t succeed):


    *   Major aircraft carriers at sea

    *   Shallow waters allowed for recovery of damaged ships.

    *   Japanese missed strategic targets like fuel depots.

    *   **2,403 Americans died**; 1,177 on USS Arizona. 900+ bodies remain
    entombed underwater in the ship.
  card_citation: ''
card_3:
  card_text: "A First in 2018n---------------nn> 2018 is the first year, in recent memory, survivors from USS Arizona will not attend an annual memorial at Pearl Harbor.n> n> The final 5 living survivors, all in their 90s, are unable to travel.n> n> _“My doctor said,’ Lou, damn it, you’re old.'”__Lou Conter, 97, a pilot, explaining why he isn’t traveling."
  card_citation: ''
card_4:
  card_text: >-
    Not Just Soldiers Impacted

    --------------------------


    *   **68 civilians died** in attack on Pearl Harbor, including **11 children
    under age of 16**.

    *   Many civilians killed not by the Japanese but friendly fire, as bombs
    targeting Japanese fell elsewhere on the island.

    *   **Real Fear:** One mother, fearing atrocities of Japanese told an
    American soldier to shoot her hiding family if Japanese invaded.
  card_citation: ''
card_5:
  card_text: >-
    > “I saw a formation of black planes diving straight into the ocean off
    Pearl Harbor. The blue sky was punctured with anti-aircraft smoke puffs…I
    saw a rooftop fly into the air like a pasteboard movie set.”

    > 

    > Elizabeth McIntosh, a journalist for Honolulu Star-Bulletin wrote an
    article specifically to tell women about the atrocities of the Pearl Harbor
    attack. Her editor refused to publish it because of its graphic nature. The
    Washington Post printed it 71 years later (read it in full on our source
    page).
  card_citation: ''
card_10:
  card_text: ""December 7, 1941ax14a date which will live in infamy" - a famous phrase by Pres. Roosevelt uttered the day *after* the Pearl Harbor attack. Japan planned the attack while all along engaging in diplomatic talks with America. Listen to the speech:nn[view sources](https://smarthernews.com/18-12-07-pearl-harbor/)"
  card_citation: ''

---
*   **Listen to the famous speech by Pres. FDR:**A [http://historymatters.gmu.edu/d/5166/](\"http://historymatters.gmu.edu/d/5166/\")
*   **With five USS Arizona crewmembers remaining, ita\\u0019s a\\u0018twilighta\\u0019 for Pearl Harbor survivorsA**  
    [https://www.stripes.com/news/veterans/with-five-uss-arizona-crewmembers-remaining-it-s-twilight-for-pearl-harbor-survivors-1.559207](\"https://www.stripes.com/news/veterans/with-five-uss-arizona-crewmembers-remaining-it-s-twilight-for-pearl-harbor-survivors-1.559207\")
*   **Where the Japanese Went Wrong at Pearl Harbor**A [https://visitpearlharbor.org/%EF%BB%BF%EF%BB%BFwhere-japanese-went-wrong-pearl-harbor/](\"https://visitpearlharbor.org/%EF%BB%BF%EF%BB%BFwhere-japanese-went-wrong-pearl-harbor/\")
*   **Honolulu after Pearl Harbor: A report published for the first time, 71 years later**  
    [https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/honolulu-after-pearl-harbor-a-report-published-for-the-first-time-71-years-later/2012/12/06/e9029986-3d69-11e2-bca3-aadc9b7e29c5\_story.html?utm\_term=.5e8aa38a4c76](\"https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/honolulu-after-pearl-harbor-a-report-published-for-the-first-time-71-years-later/2012/12/06/e9029986-3d69-11e2-bca3-aadc9b7e29c5_story.html?utm_term=.5e8aa38a4c76\")  
    _For seven ghastly, confused days,A we have been at war. To the women of Hawaii, it has meant a total disruption of home life, a sudden acclimation to blackout nights, terrifying rumors, fear of the unknown as planes drone overhead and lorries shriek through the streets.__The seven days may stretch to seven years, and the women of Hawaii will have to accept a new routine of living. It is time, now, after the initial confusion and terror have subsided, to sum up the events of the past week, to make plans for the future.__It would be well, perhaps, to review the events of the past seven days and not minimize the horror, to better prepare for what may come again.__I have a story to tell, as a reporter, that I think the women of Hawaii should hear. I tell it because I think it may help other women in the struggle, so they will not take the past events lightly.A_ _I reported for work immediatelyA on Sunday morning when the first news a\\u0014 Oahu is being attacked a\\u0014 crackled over the radio, sandwiched in a church program.__Like the rest of Hawaii, I refused to believe it. All along the sunny road to town were people just coming out of church, dogs lazy in the driveways, mynas in noisy convention.__Then, from the neighborhood called Punchbowl, I saw a formation of black planes diving straight into the ocean off Pearl Harbor. The blue sky was punctured with anti-aircraft smoke puffs. Suddenly, there was a sharp whistling sound, almost over my shoulder, and below, down on School Street. I saw a rooftop fly into the air like a pasteboard movie set.__For the first time, I felt that numb terror that all of London has known for months. It is the terror of not being able to do anything but fall on your stomach and hope the bomb wona\\u0019t land on you. Ita\\u0019s the helplessness and terror of sudden visions of a ripping sensation in your back, shrapnel coursing through your chest, total blackness, maybe death.__The vision of death becameA reality when I was assigned to cover the emergency room of the hospital.__The first victims of the Japanese-American war were brought there on that bright Sunday morning._
    
    _Bombs were still dropping over the city as ambulances screamed off into the heart of the destruction. The drivers were blood-sodden when they returned, with stories of streets ripped up, houses burned, twisted shrapnel and charred bodies of children._
    
    _In the morgue, the bodies were laid on slabs in the grotesque positions in which they had died. Fear contorted their faces. Their clothes were blue-black from incendiary bombs. One little girl in a red sweater, barefoot, still clutched a piece of jump-rope in her hand._
    
    _Firefighters from the Hickam Air Force Base carried the victims in. The men had a red T marked on their foreheads, mute testimony of the efficiency of first-aiders in giving tetanus shots to ward off lockjaw. The body of a man with a monogrammed shirt, H.A.D., was marked DOA (dead on arrival), trundled off to make room for victims who were still breathing._
    
    _There was blood and the fearA of death a\\u0014 and death itself a\\u0014 in the emergency room as doctors calmly continued to treat the victims of this new war. Interns were taping up windows to prevent them from crashing into the emergency area as bombs fell and the dead and wounded continued to arrive. I had never known that blood could be so bright red._
    
    _Returning to the city, I felt a mounting sense of fear as Honolulu began to realize that more was in the air than an Army alert._
    
    _I went to a bombed store on King Street, where I often, in times past, stopped for a Coke at the cool drug counter._
    
    _Seven little stores, including my drugstore, had nearly completely burned down. Charred, ripply walls, as high as the first story, alone remained to give any hint of where the store had been. At the smashed soda fountain was a half-eaten chocolate sundae. Scorched bonbons were scattered on the sidewalk. There were odd pieces lying in the wreckage, half-burned Christmas cards, on one, the words a\\u001cHark the Heralda\\u001d still visible. There were twisted bedsprings, half-burned mattresses, cans of food, a childa\\u0019s blackened bicycle, a lunch box, a green raveled sweater, a Bang-Up comic book, ripped awnings._
    
    _I ran out of notepaper and reached down and picked up a charred batch of writing paper, still wet from a fire hose. There was, too, the irony of Christmas tinsel, cellophane, decorations. A burned doll, with moving eyes, singed curls and straw bonnet, like a miniature corpse, lay in the wreckage._
    
    _That Sunday after dusk there was the all-night horror of attack in the dark. Sirens shrieking, sharp, crackling police reports and the tension of a city wrapped in fear._
    
    _Then, in the nightmare of Monday and Tuesday, there was the struggle to keep normal when planes zoomed overhead and guns cracked out at an unseen enemy. There was blackout and suspicion riding the back of wild rumors:Parachutists in the hills! Poison in your food! Starvation and death were all that was left in a tourist bureau paradise._
    
    _I talked with evacuees. From Hickam, a nurse who had dropped to the floor in the hospital kitchen as machine gun bullets dotted a neat row of holes directly above her; from Schofield, a woman who wanted me to send word to her sweetheart a\\u001csomewhere in Honolulua\\u001d that she was still alive; from Pearl Harbor, a nurse who wanted scraps of paper and pencil stubs to give to the boys in the hospital who had last messages they wanted sent home; a little girl named Theda who had a big doll named Nancy and who told me in a quiet voice that a\\u001cDaddy was killed at Hickam.a\\u001d_
    
    _At the ofi\\u0001ce there wereA frantic calls from all sorts of women a\\u0014 housewives, stenographers, debutantes a\\u0014 wanting to know what they could do during the day, when husbands and brothers were away and there was nothing left but to listen to the radio and imagine that all hell had broken out on another part of the island._
    
    _It was then that I realized how important women can be in a war-torn world._
    
    _There is a job for every woman in Hawaii to do._
    
    _I discovered that when I visited the Red Cross centers, canteens, evacuee districts, the motor corps headquarters._
    
    _There is great organization in Honolulu, mapped out thoughtfully and competently by women who have had experience in World War I, who have looked ahead and foreseen the carnage of the past seven days and planned._